


how to set up google analytics 












 
 
 
 
 
 















  
    
  



  tutorials 
  references 
  exercises 
  videos
  pro new

  menu 

  
    
      
      log in
  

  
    
    paid courses
    website new
    



  




  
    
      
      
      html
      css
      javascript
      sql
      python
      php
      bootstrap
      how to
      w3.css
      java
      jquery
      c++
      c#
      r
      react
      kotlin
      ?
      ?

      ?


      
      
    
    

 dark mode

 dark code



 
 ×
 
  
   tutorials
  
  
   html and css
   learn html
   learn css
   learn rwd
   learn bootstrap
   learn w3.css
   learn colors
   learn icons
   learn graphics
   learn svg
   learn canvas
   learn how to
   learn sass   
   
   data analytics
   learn ai
   learn machine learning
   learn data science 
   learn numpy       
   learn pandas    
   learn scipy    
   learn matplotlib    
   learn statistics
   learn excel

   xml tutorials
   learn xml
   learn xml ajax
   learn xml dom
   learn xml dtd
   learn xml schema
   learn xslt
   learn xpath
   learn xquery
  
  
  
   javascript
   learn javascript
   learn jquery
   learn react
   learn angularjs
   learn json
   learn ajax
   learn appml
   learn w3.js

   programming
   learn python
   learn java
   learn c
   learn c++
   learn c#
   learn r
   learn kotlin
   learn go
   learn django
   
 
   server side
   learn sql
   learn mysql
   learn php
   learn asp
   learn node.js
   learn raspberry pi
   learn git
   learn aws cloud

   web building
   create a website new
   where to start
   web templates
   web statistics
   web certificates
   web development
   code editor
   test your typing speed
   play a code game
   cyber security
   accessibility
  
  
   data analytics
   learn ai
   learn machine learning
   learn data science 
   learn numpy    
   learn pandas    
   learn scipy    
   learn matplotlib    
   learn statistics
   learn excel
   learn google sheets

   xml tutorials
   learn xml
   learn xml ajax
   learn xml dom
   learn xml dtd
   learn xml schema
   learn xslt
   learn xpath
   learn xquery
  
 
 
 



 
 ×
 
 
   references
  
  
   html
   html tag reference
   html browser support   
   html event reference
   html color reference
   html attribute reference
   html canvas reference
   html svg reference
   google maps reference
   css
   css reference
   css browser support
   css selector reference
   bootstrap 3 reference
   bootstrap 4 reference
   w3.css reference
   icon reference
   sass reference
  
  
   javascript
   javascript reference
   html dom reference
   jquery reference
   angularjs reference
   appml reference
   w3.js reference

   programming
   python reference
   java reference
  
  
   server side
   sql reference
   mysql reference
   php reference
   asp reference
   xml
   xml dom reference
   xml http reference
   xslt reference
   xml schema reference
  
  
   character sets
   html character sets
   html ascii
   html ansi
   html windows-1252
   html iso-8859-1
   html symbols
   html utf-8
  
 
 
 



 
 ×
 
 
   exercises and quizzes
  
  
   exercises
   html exercises
   css exercises
   javascript exercises
   sql exercises
   mysql exercises
   php exercises
   python exercises
   numpy exercises
   pandas exercises
   scipy exercises
   jquery exercises
   java exercises
   c++ exercises
   c# exercises
   r exercises
   kotlin exercises
   go exercises
   bootstrap exercises
   bootstrap 4 exercises
   bootstrap 5 exercises
   git exercises
  
  
   quizzes
   html quiz
   css quiz
   javascript quiz
   sql quiz
   mysql quiz
   php quiz
   python quiz
   numpy quiz
   pandas quiz
   scipy quiz
   jquery quiz
   java quiz
   c++ quiz
   c# quiz
   r quiz
   xml quiz
   cyber security quiz
   bootstrap quiz
   bootstrap 4 quiz
   bootstrap 5 quiz
   accessibility quiz
  
  
   courses
  
   html course
   css course
   javascript course
   front end course
   sql course
   php course
   python course
   numpy course
   pandas course
   data analytics course
   jquery course
   java course
   c++ course
   c# course
   r course
   xml course
   cyber security course
   accessibility course
  
  
   certificates
  
   html certificate
   css certificate
   javascript certificate
   front end certificate
   sql certificate
   php certificate
   python certificate
   data science certificate
   bootstrap 3 certificate
   bootstrap 4 certificate
   jquery certificate
   java certificate
   c++ certificate
   react certificate
   xml certificate
  
 
 
 



  



  ×
  
    tutorials 
    
    references 
    
    exercises 
    
    paid courses
    spaces
    videos
    shop
    pro
  






  
    





how to
howto home

menus
icon bar
menu icon
accordion
tabs
vertical tabs
tab headers
full page tabs
hover tabs
top navigation
responsive topnav
navbar with icons
search menu
search bar
fixed sidebar
side navigation
responsive sidebar
fullscreen navigation
off-canvas menu
hover sidenav buttons
sidebar with icons
horizontal scroll menu
vertical menu
bottom navigation
responsive bottom nav
bottom border nav links
right aligned menu links
centered menu link
equal width menu links
fixed menu
slide down bar on scroll
hide navbar on scroll
shrink navbar on scroll
sticky navbar
navbar on image
hover dropdowns
click dropdowns
cascading dropdown
dropdown in topnav
dropdown in sidenav
resp navbar dropdown
subnavigation menu
dropup
mega menu
mobile menu
curtain menu
collapsed sidebar
collapsed sidepanel
pagination
breadcrumbs
button group
vertical button group
sticky social bar
pill navigation
responsive header


images
slideshow
slideshow gallery
modal images
lightbox
responsive image grid
image grid
tab gallery
image overlay fade
image overlay slide
image overlay zoom
image overlay title
image overlay icon
image effects
black and white image
image text
image text blocks
transparent image text
full page image
form on image
hero image
blur background image
change bg on scroll
side-by-side images
rounded images
avatar images
responsive images
center images
thumbnails
border around image
meet the team
sticky image
flip an image
shake an image
portfolio gallery
portfolio with filtering
image zoom
image magnifier glass
image comparison slider
favicon


buttons
alert buttons
outline buttons
split buttons
animated buttons
fading buttons
button on image
social media buttons
read more read less
loading buttons
download buttons
pill buttons
notification button
icon buttons
next/prev buttons
more button in nav
block buttons
text buttons
round buttons
scroll to top button


forms
login form
signup form
checkout form
contact form
social login form
register form
form with icons
newsletter
stacked form
responsive form
popup form
inline form
clear input field
hide number arrows
copy text to clipboard
animated search
search button
fullscreen search
input field in navbar
login form in navbar
custom checkbox/radio
custom select
toggle switch
check checkbox
detect caps lock
trigger button on enter
password validation
toggle password visibility
multiple step form
autocomplete
turn off autocomplete
turn off spellcheck
file upload button
empty input validation


filters
filter list
filter table
filter elements
filter dropdown
sort list
sort table


tables
zebra striped table
center tables
full-width table
side-by-side tables
responsive tables
comparison table


more
fullscreen video
modal boxes
delete modal
timeline
scroll indicator
progress bars
skill bar
range sliders
tooltips
display element hover
popups
collapsible
calendar
html includes
to do list
loaders
star rating
user rating
overlay effect
contact chips
cards
flip card
profile card
product card
alerts
callout
notes
labels
circles
style hr
coupon
list group
list without bullets
responsive text
cutout text
glowing text
fixed footer
sticky element
equal height
clearfix
responsive floats
snackbar
fullscreen window
scroll drawing
smooth scroll
gradient bg scroll
sticky header
shrink header on scroll
pricing table
parallax
aspect ratio
responsive iframes
toggle like/dislike
toggle hide/show
toggle dark mode
toggle text
toggle class
add class
remove class
active class
tree view
remove property
offline detection
find hidden element
redirect webpage
zoom hover
flip box
center vertically
center button in div
transition on hover
arrows
shapes
download link
full height element
browser window
custom scrollbar
hide scrollbar
show/force scrollbar
device look
contenteditable border
placeholder color
text selection color
bullet color
vertical line
dividers
animate icons
countdown timer
typewriter
coming soon page
chat messages
popup chat window
split screen
testimonials
section counter
quotes slideshow
closable list items
typical device breakpoints
draggable html element
js media queries
syntax highlighter
js animations
js string length
js exponentiation
js default parameters
get current url
get current screen size
get iframe elements


website
create a free website
make a website
make a static website
host a static website
make a website (w3.css)
make a website (bs3)
make a website (bs4)
make a website (bs5)
create and view a website
create a link tree website
create a portfolio
create a resume
make a restaurant website
make a business website
make a webbook
center website
contact section
about page
big header
example website


grid
2 column layout
3 column layout
4 column layout
expanding grid
list grid view
mixed column layout
column cards
zig zag layout
blog layout


google

google charts
google fonts
google font pairings
google set up analytics


converters
convert weight
convert temperature
convert length
convert speed


blog
get a developer job
become a front-end dev.



      
    
  


  
    
      
        

        
        
        

      
how to set up google analytics

? previous
next ?



google analytics is used to view and understand web traffic.
it is free and easy to use.
you can customize it for many use cases.
it works out of the box.
it is fast to set up. get your insights today!
create my free website ?




    skip reading about google analytics. take me directly to the first step. go to the first step


what is google analytics
google analytics is a web analytics solution.
it is developed and supported by google.
the newest version is called google analytics 4.
it can be used to view data such as audience, page views, sessions and, demographics, and events.

why enable google analytics
understand your web traffic to make better decisions.
understand and improve the sales funnel.
learn from experimenting (for example, a/b tests).



    google has another solution called google optimize. this solution is made for testing.



who is google analytics for
google analytics is useful for anyone who has a website.
it gives you information about who uses your site and how they interact with it.
in addition, interface is easy to understand.
you do not need an analytics background to use and navigate the service.



how to set up google analytics step-by-step
google analytics can be set up in two ways the global website tag (gtag.js) or google tag manager.
the easiest way is to use the global website tag.
this tutorial will use the the global website tag approach.


preparations
decide which code editor to use and set up your environment.

w3schools has created an easy-to-use code editor called w3schools spaces. sign up and get started in a few clicks.
start for free ?

create your index.html file so that you are ready to enter the code.
all setup. let's go!


set up google analytics: the global website tag


step 1: create a google analytics account
go to analytics: create an account or sign in to analytics
the link in the paragraph above takes you to the google analytics landing page.
click the "start for free" button.






  
  



step 2: enter the welcome page
after creating an account or signing in, you are welcomed to the solution.
press the "start measuring" button to proceed.



step 3: account setup
you have two decisions to make here.

    enter your account name.
    decide what data you want to share.
    click the "next" button.


    one account can have more than one tracking id. you can track more than one website with an account.




step 4: property setup

    property is the service you measure, such as a website, application, link tree, etc.


    enter a property name.
    enter your time zone.
    enter the currency that you use.
    click the "next" button.





step 5: add business information
analytics uses the information to tailor your experience.

    select your industry category.
    select business size.
    tick the boxes for how you are planning to use analytics.
    click the "create" button to proceed.




step 6: terms of service agreement
read and understand the terms of service.
tick the gdpr box and click the "i accept" button if you agree.



step 7: email subscriptions

    tick or uncheck all boxes.
    click the "save" button to continue.




step 8: select platform
chose the platform where you are collecting data.
then, click the relevant platform to continue.

we are continuing with "web" as the example in this tutorial.




step 9: data stream setup
enter data stream details.

    the url to your site.
    the name that you want to give the stream.
    decide if you are to enable enhanced measurement or not.
    click on the "create stream" button to continue.
    
        the enhanced measurement can give the data more context. improving your understanding of the traffic.
    



step 10: web stream overview
here you can see a detailed overview of the web stream.

here are the key takeaways from the overview.


1. stream url.
the stream url is the link to the connected site.





2. measurement id
the measurement id is the identifier for your data stream.
it has a format of g-xxxxxxx.




    google analytics 4 uses measurement id. older versions use tracking id. you can not have both.
    


3. tagging instructions
decide to use global site tag (gtag.js) or tag manager.
this tutorial will use the global site tag.
installing the global site tag is the easiest and quickest way of getting it up and running.




step 11: global site tag (gtag.js)
click the "global site tag (gtag.js)" row.

here you can see a code snippet.
the code snippet is a script to allow google to measure data on your site.
you can see the measurement id in the second last line in the code snippet.


the code snippet

<!-- global site tag (gtag.js) - google analytics -->
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=g-dnjn1pf3cs"></script>
<script>
  window.datalayer = window.datalayer || [];
  function gtag(){datalayer.push(arguments);}
  gtag('js', new date());

  gtag('config', 'g-xxxxxxx');
</script>




step 12: enter the code snippet
copy the code snippet.
make sure to include your measurement id.
locate the <head> tag in your html.
paste the code snippet just below the <head> tag.
save and publish the code.


    we used w3schools spaces in this example.



step 13: test that it works
ensure that you have successfully saved and published the code snippet with the correct measurement id.
open the url for the site you have connected to the data stream.
click on "real time" on the menu to the left.
confirm that you see yourself as an active user.
congrats. you have successfully enabled google analytics for your site!



explore google analytics
recommended related topics are tag manager and events
spend time in the service to learn about your user activity, commerce, demographics, device, and referrals.



tip: ever heard of w3schools spaces? it is a personal space where you can make a website from scratch or use a template and host it for free.
it has everything you need in the browser.
get started in a few clicks.
  start now for free ?
  * no credit card required




 








? previous
next ?








  
  
    
  
  

  



  
    new
  
  we just launchedw3schools videos
  
  explore now



color picker







  
    
    
    
        
  







get certifiedby completinga course today!


w3schools certified  .  2022



get started











  code game
  
  play game







  
    
      
      
        
      
    
  











  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
  





report error



forum


about


shop





×

report error

if you want to report an error, or if you want to make a suggestion, do not hesitate to send us an e-mail:
help@w3schools.com






×     
thank you for helping us!
your message has been sent to w3schools.





top tutorials
html tutorial
css tutorial
javascript tutorial
how to tutorial
sql tutorial
python tutorial
w3.css tutorial
bootstrap tutorial
php tutorial
java tutorial
c++ tutorial
jquery tutorial




top references
html reference
css reference
javascript reference
sql reference
python reference
w3.css reference
bootstrap reference
php reference
html colors
java reference
angular reference
jquery reference




top examples
html examples
css examples
javascript examples
how to examples
sql examples
python examples
w3.css examples
bootstrap examples
php examples
java examples
xml examples
jquery examples






web courses
html course
css course
javascript course
front end course
sql course
python course
php course
jquery course
java course
c++ course
c# course
xml course

get certified »



        
        



w3schools is optimized for learning and training. examples might be simplified to improve reading and learning.
tutorials, references, and examples are constantly reviewed to avoid errors, but we cannot warrant full correctness of all content.
while using w3schools, you agree to have read and accepted our terms of use, 
cookie and privacy policy.
copyright 1999-2022 by refsnes data. all rights reserved.
w3schools is powered by w3.css.



    












